Welcome back everyone to the series of lectures on live updating with your dashboards.
We've already explored various methods of interacting of our graphs but we still don't know how to work
for changing or updating data source.
So far our data sources have been static files.
All we can do is use the dash core component interval to have the dashboard update itself after a certain
amount of time.
Let's explore this first through a simple example of refreshing the page automatically.
Then we're going to build off this concept to web script live data from a web site and incorporate that
into our dashboard.
Let's get started with the simple example first OK before we invoke the interval component from Dasch
core components let's consider updating on a page to load.
We're going to do now is we're going to import Dasch and also import dash HTL components as HTL then
we'll say app is equal to dash dash and we're going to set crash underscore free just a variable equal
to zero.
And then we'll add one to this.
So it costs underscore free isn't equal to crash on or square free plus one.
And then we'll say app thought lay out is equal to each T.M. Hetter one and we're going to have the
following string crash free for refreshes then we're just going to say that format and we're going to
say crash free.
So basically what happens here we create our data application set this to zero at once so then crash
free is equal to 1 and you'll see why we set it up like this later on.
And then we just print out it's been crash free for blank refreshes then we're going to do at the end
of all this just run if main or whoops if name is equal to main app run server.
Let's run this and see what happens.
I thought basic but PI enter and let's head to the dashboard.
All right.
So notice it says crash free for one refreshes makes sense since we set that crash free variables equal
to 1.
But when I refresh this notice that number is not changing.
So it doesn't matter if my refresh this a million times.
It's always going to stay as one.
So we're going to do now is create a function that will actually allow us to update this when we refresh
and then we'll show you how you can use the interval component to have dashboard refresh automatically
without you having to constantly click this refresh button.
So let's go back to that text editor.
All right.
Coming back to the text editor it makes sense that refreshing this didn't change anything because right
now crash free getting a plus one it's just happening immediately after zero.
And there's no connection here to actually refreshing the page.
So instead we're going to do it right after we set crash free equal to zero.
We're going to say creative function refresh.
Leo.
It's not going to take any parameters what it's going to do.
It's going to grab the global crash free variable.
Essentially what I mean by global is this variable outside of the function and then it's going to do
this command add one to crash free.
And just to keep in mind this equals crash free plus one this can also be rewritten as.
Plus equals.
So we'll keep it that way.
So it's a little shorter.
So we're going to Wences functions called then we're going to add one to crash free and we're actually
then going to return what we previously wrote as a.
We're going to return this h tim l H-1 crash free for whatever it refreshes.
That will set the layout equal to calling that function we're actually just the function itself refresh
layout.
No I'm not having open close princess here.
I'm just setting it to the layout.
So what does it actually mean.
Well it means that every time we refresh our dashboard we're going to be calling.
What's the current application layout.
And then that's going to end up executing refresh layout meaning we add one to the global crash free
variable value and then you'll see this update.
So let's save this and see if that worked.
We're going to restart our dashboard.
Let's head over to it now.
All right here I am at my dashboard and you'll notice that as I'm refreshing this now the numbers actually
changing and that's because we're returning that function instead of just a single value.
So you see you keep refreshing this you actually get 19 20 and so on.
Now what we're going to do is show you how you can use the interval component to actually call that
refresh automatically from within your script.
So let's head back and use DCC interval.
OK here we are back at our script.
We're going to do is say import Dasch core components as DCC.
And then we also say from dasht dependencies in poor input and output OK there we go.
And we set up our application and will we're going to do now is we can actually get rid of this function
since we won't be using it anymore and we'll get rid of this crash free as well and set this more to
something we've been working with before which is set the layout to a div inside the Stiv.
We're going to have a header that just says Team l H-1 and we'll give this the ID of a live update.
Text and then the second thing inside this division is going to be the interval core components so we
need to get the snidey.
We'll call this the interval components.
And then you can decide on the interval parameter.
So the interval parameter that is the number of milliseconds you want to wait before you refresh your
dashboard.
So two thousand milliseconds is equal to two seconds and then we can set the number of intervals to
default to zero.
So no intervals have passed when we first run the dashboard OK then we're going to do down here is we're
going to create a function called up they lay out gets taken and which we've seen a second what it is.
And basically it's just going to return crash free for what we had before refreshes.
And then we'll format the end value.
So we're going to use a callback to actually provide an output here we'll say app or I should say input
say an app that callback output we're gonna grab or send to the output.
The Live Update text.
So that's what we want to change.
Let's copy this paste as the output.
And since we just wanted to change the text that's going to be children as it's ID then for the input.
Remember this goes in as a list will say input interval components
and then we're going to grab is the number of intervals.
So that's the property that we're working with so we're passing in the number of intervals that this
interval component has gone through.
So first it's going to say crash free zero refreshes and then every interval in this case two seconds.
It's going to update this to the number of intervals that have passed.
So then I'll say one two and three every two seconds will be updating.
And that's essentially how the interval component works.
You basically choose the interval time and then the number of intervals.
Usually the default 0 and you can then use that to update your page.
OK.
And as I just want to quickly mention here you don't need to pass in number intervals or report it.
You can just have some other action occur for every interval kind of the same way for an underscore.
Clicks don't necessarily need to use an underscore clicks in your actual function.
You just need to pass it in in order to connect it to some button state call.
Let's save this and run this going to restart my dashboard.
I'm basic but pie and looks like it's running.
Let's head over to the dashboard here dashboard and every two seconds you'll end up seeing it automatically
update to 3 to 4 and so on.
You can see from a mouse I'm no longer manually clicking that refresh button.
So that's how the interval component works.
That's really the basics of all you need to know about updating in the next lecture or we're going to
show you a more realistic example where we actually scrape data at a certain interval in order to update
our dashboard.
We'll see you there at the next lecture.
Feel free to check out the guidebook for any questions.